each time that would be no Monday coming
up okay that's Helen I'm going to leave
you there now because the Chancellor is
about to speak good afternoon I'm joined
today by Steve Paulus medical director
of the NHS and Angela MacLean deputy
chief government scientific adviser let
me start by reminding everyone about our
step-by-step action plan to defeat
coronavirus at every step of this
process we have followed the latest
scientific and medical advice our goal
is to slow the spread of the virus and
protect the ability of the NHS to cope
we've taken unprecedented action to
increase NHS capacity with more beds
more staff and more equipment on the
frontline and we've told people to stay
at home so that we can protect lives and
protect the NHS today's daily figures
show that two hundred and thirty two
thousand seven hundred and eight people
in the UK have now been tested for
coronavirus sixty thousand seven hundred
and thirty-four people have tested
positive an increase of five thousand
four hundred and ninety two cases since
yesterday nineteen thousand four hundred
and thirty eight people have been
admitted to hospital and sadly of those
in hospital seven thousand and ninety
seven have now died an increase of nine
hundred and thirty-eight fatalities
since yesterday our thoughts are with
the family and friends of those who have
passed away people I'm sure will also
want an update on the Prime Minister's
health he is receiving excellent care
from the NHS team at st. Thomas's the
latest from the hospital is that the
Prime Minister remains in intensive care
where his condition is improving I can
also tell you that he has been sitting
up in bed and engaging positively with
the clinical team the Prime Minister is
not only my colleague and my boss but
also my
friend and my thoughts are with him and
his family the news about the PM reminds
us how indiscriminate this disease is
nearly everyone will know someone who's
been affected friends family neighbors
colleagues this is a terrible virus that
respects no boundaries of status or
geography or vocation but we are not
facing it alone we are all taking part
in a collective national effort to
protect the vulnerable and each other to
secure our public services and to save
lives this endeavor is underpinned by an
important simple idea that we depend on
each other when you need it when you
fall on hard times we will all as one
society be there for you to take care of
you until you are once again ready to
take care of yourself and others this
idea has been central to all of our
efforts to support people and businesses
during this crisis we promise to do
whatever it takes and I am striving
every day to keep that promise but when
I say we all depend on each other I
don't just mean the relationship between
individuals businesses and the state one
of our greatest strengths as a country
is our civil society the local charities
who provide so much compassion care and
community to the most vulnerable in our
country you have not been forgotten
British people businesses and
foundations are already doing their part
to support our charity sector and today
we in government will do our part as we
build on our plan for the economy with a
plan to support our social fabric there
are nearly a hundred and seventy
thousand Charities in this country and
the truth is we will not be able to
match every
pound of funding that they would have
received this year charities can already
use many of our existing schemes to
support people and to protect their
staff all charities are eligible for the
job retention scheme and in line with
medical advice and just like any other
employer the right answer for many
charities will be to furlough their
employees but some charities are on the
front line of fighting the coronavirus
and others provide critical services and
support to vulnerable people and
communities for them shutting up shop at
this moment would be to contravene their
very purpose their entire reason to
exist those charities have never been
more needed than they are now and
they've never faced such a sudden fall
in their funding so today I'm announcing
750 million pounds of funding for the
charity sector three hundred and seventy
million pounds of that funding will
support small local charities working
with vulnerable people we all know who
they are those small charities in our
villages our market towns in pockets of
our cities the unsung heroes looking
after the vulnerable and holding
together our social fabric in England
this support will be provided through
organizations like the National Lottery
community's fund and we will allocate
sixty million pounds of this funding
through the Barnett formula to Scotland
Wales and Northern Ireland the UK
government will also provide three
hundred and sixty million pounds
directly to charities providing
essential services and supporting
vulnerable people as we battle the
coronavirus up to two hundred million
pounds of those grants will support
hospices with the rest going to
organisations like sin Johns Ambulance
and the Citizens Advice bureaux as well
as charity supporting vulnerable
children victims of domestic abuse or
disabled people and last night the BBC
announced their big night in charity
appeal on April the 23rd and today I can
confirm
that the government will match
pound-for-pound whatever the public
decides to donate starting with at least
20 million pounds to the national
emergencies trust appeal two short weeks
ago I spoke of the need for kindness
decency and the sort of neighborliness
that is at the heart of these charitable
and community efforts the normally
invisible connections between us have in
recent weeks become more apparent for
most of us we spend our lives oblivious
to these connections these bonds and how
our behaviors however small can have a
dramatic effect on others but these
bonds are not invisible for our local
charities for the volunteer keeping
victims of domestic violence safe for
the outreach worker helping a rough
sleeper find a bed all for the support
worker manning the phones to help stave
off the heart-wrenching loneliness so
many of our elderly relatives and
friends will be experiencing right now
these connections might be hard to see
that they are there and they are
strengthened by our compassion for
others charities embody this like no
other organization and their lesson is
that the simplest acts have the
potential to change lives at this hurt
time when many are hurting and tired and
confined we need the gentleness of
charities in our lives it gives us hope
it makes us stronger and it reminds us
we depend on each other thank you
if we could now take some questions
I believe Angela when you're going to
present your slides first if I'm a
perfect I wanted to start by showing
this data which is a record of how much
we've acted together to reduce how much
we contact each other so what's shown
here is football at 17 stations across
the state across the country counting
how many people pass through those
stations at different times through the
month of March and what you see is that
at the end of March
football was down 94 percent compared to
the first week of March
and in the next slide what you can see
is that that has worked in the sense
that this count of new cases in the UK
day by day over the last few weeks is
not accelerating out of control
yesterday there were five thousand four
hundred and ninety two new cases and the
spread of this virus is not accelerating
and that is good news if I could have
the next slide please what's recorded
here is people in hospital beds with
coded and the highest of those lines is
London and the one just below in gray is
the Midlands and what this is is is a
slower responding record of new
infections because of course once people
are in hospital some of them will have
to stay there for many days some of them
for some weeks but again what we see is
that the rate at which this is rising is
definitely getting slower and it looks
like we were beginning to get towards a
flat curve there which is of course what
we've all wanted our overall aim has
always been to make sure that everybody
can have access to critical care if they
need it and that's what's shown on the
next slide is covert patients in
critical care back one please
can I go back one please mm-hmm no okay
this one here yes thank you and there we
can see encouraging news that perhaps in
at least in some parts of the country
this really has started to flatten
across the country in the last 24 hours
this has increased by just four percent
and again that is good news because this
is our most limiting resource at the
moment so finally I have data on the sad
statistic about of people who have died
from coded and this is an international
comparison across different countries
showing how that number accumulates in
different countries and UK is the dark
blue line somewhere in the middle there
this data has long reporting lags and
even after the number of people in
critical care stabilizes or even maybe
begins to fall this number will rise
because sometimes deaths are reported
many many days or even a week or so
after sadly somebody has died so we
expect this number to keep rising even
after her the curve has flattened thank
you tosser Thank You Steven Lee we
wanted to add a word on charities so in
the NHS we work very closely with our
partners in the charitable section I
know it's really important that not only
we all support them during this
difficult time but it's also really
important to recognize the support that
they are giving everybody to help them
through the time where we are asking
people to stay at home and and take the
measures that we have indicated I have
the real privilege at NHS England of
leading the cardiovascular that's heart
attacks and stroke strategy and to
charities I work very closely with the
British Heart Foundation the Stroke
Association I know they would want me to
say today to remind everybody that the
NHS has worked night and day to surge
capacity to manage coronavirus but it is
also there for you if you have symptoms
of a stroke symptoms of a heart attack
indeed if you have any emerge
see condition whether it's a sick child
whether it's a mother or a pregnant
mother in in pregnancy who's worried
about the movements of the baby you
should be seeking emergency services
just as you always have done they are
there for you and although we are
focusing on coronavirus it's important
that we also continue to focus on other
emergency conditions thank you Steve
if we take some questions I think first
up is Laura Coons Berg from BBC and
Thank You Chancellor you keep saying
whatever it takes to help people through
this time and with support from the
economy but do you accept Chancellor
that under the lockdown there is a
trade-off between protecting people's
health and protecting people's jobs
thanks Laura well I think we've been
clear our priority is to protect
people's lives their health and
well-being that is our absolute
overriding priority but alongside that
in a coordinated I think coherent and
consistent fashion we have also put in
place unprecedented and significant
measures to protect people's jobs their
incomes their livelihoods in addy the
businesses that employ them I think
that's the right approach and what it
does is means that we can mitigate as
much of the economic impact as possible
and ensure that as soon as we can get
through this that we can bounce back as
quickly as possible
was there anything you wanted to follow
up on for either anyone else and do you
accept though that some people are
falling through the cracks I mean the
Treasury select committee this afternoon
is said that you need to take courage
and action for some people who aren't
covered by your very extensive scheme do
you think the public should be prepared
for a serious downturn maybe even a
recession I think I've been very clear
and very honest that this will have a
significant impact on our economy that's
not uncommon with every other major
country that's grappling with this then
we will all see a significant impact on
our economy and I've also been very
honest that in spite of what our
unprecedented measures in scale and
scope you know I can't stand here and
say that I can save every single job
protect everything
business or indeed every single charity
focus of today's announcements that's
just simply not possible but what we can
do is put in place what I think is an
enormous amount of support in a targeted
fashion as best as possible to help as
many people as possible get through this
so that as I said we can emerge on the
other side of it stronger United and
hopefully able to bounce back as quickly
as possible I think if we turn next to
is it Tom Clark from ITV Tommy you that
thank you answer my questions to testing
yesterday's briefing of the chief
medical officer may be honest admission
that Germany is lower death toll in
their pandemic is due to their ability
to test more people more quickly given
their death toll is three times higher
three times as lower than ours is it now
time to the government to come out to
look next that thousands of people have
died and thousands more people will die
in this country as a result of a failure
to test all people rapidly different
entities I don't think that's what the
chief medical officer did say I think he
said that testing was many one of many
factors and I think the chief scientific
adviser spoke about this too was one of
a range of things in Germany and I think
it's difficult at this stage to say what
range of factors has contributed to what
I think the chief medical officer was
also making clear that it's important
that all countries learn from each other
and I've no doubt that other countries
will want to learn from our experience
and some of the things that we have done
in in the United Kingdom for instance
the work on modeling and predicting what
the epidemic might do so I think the
point he was making yesterday was that
everybody should be learning from each
other and indeed that is what we do
Angela might have more to say on that
yes I would have thought the point would
be that the the rate of deaths of course
appears much lower if you can count many
many more of the cases that's certainly
one of the things that you see if you
see different case fatality rates in
countries that could be because you're
counting many many more other people who
should be on the
bottom of that fraction in terms of
modeling that is something that we're
really very happy in this country to
offer to other countries and hope that's
one of the things we can contribute to
the international effort thank you Tom I
hope that like I just said through the
speculative hearing on which you were a
witness we heard from the people in
charge of testing in South Korea and in
Hong Kong who made it abundantly clear
testing has reduced the numbers of cases
of kind of virus in those countries and
mr. Witte doctor what he did say
yesterday that it was in fact Germany's
ability to test that was yes part but
bear lower death rates and then we had
less attorney did not dispute that it is
about testing so can you tell me whether
it our inabilities test will lead to a
greater mortality here and can I also
follow up how dependent is the UK on a
testing regime for us to be able to lift
lockdown restrictions and are we on
course to have sufficient levels of
testing in the community to allow us to
do that in anything like the next three
or four weeks so I think we all agree
that testing is important that is not
the issue at all I think the point I was
making is that testing is one part of a
set of different things that will need
to be considered in any country's
strategy that is the case here it is the
case in Germany and I have spoken to
chief medical officer today and I think
well I know the point he was making
yesterday was it is it is a part of the
overall strategy and I think it is
almost certainly too early in all
countries experience to know exactly
which components or strategies have been
the most effective or have been most
important and it's highly likely it's
the combination of these things rather
than one any individual part of an
approach thank you Tom
could we turn to Andy Bell from channel
5 yes thank you and I want to follow up
partly on Tom's question about the
lockdown but in a different context
which is the first minister of Wales has
said today that as far as he's concerned
a lockdown is going to continue beyond
next week in
wails so can you level with us now and
just accept that the lockdown is going
to continue across the UK through next
week and from a scientific and medical
point of view is it possible or even
desirable that different parts of the
country could come out of lockdown at
different speeds yeah let me address
that before handing handing over Eddie I
can just say there will be a cobra
meeting tomorrow chaired by the first
cetera of State involving the devolved
administration's to talk about talk
about the approach to the review we
committed the variants and the data
provided by Sage which will only be
available next week but I think rather
than speculate about the future I think
we should focus very seriously on the
here and now and the present and I think
there the message is unequivocal our
priority right now is to stop the spread
of this virus to get the other side of
the peak and the best way to do that is
for people to follow the advice which is
to stay at home protect lives and
protect the NHS so I think in terms of
messaging I would want to be absolutely
unequivocal about that that's where we
are now that's the advice people should
be following that's the best thing that
we can all do to help get through this
as quickly as possible
but if you wanted to add anything on
that we have always said that we would
need to be able to see what impact the
whole suite of interventions that were
brought into place on the 23rd of March
are having before we can make any
evidence-based decision on what to do
next and this week is a really important
week we're all watching what happens I
guess from a purely scientific point of
view more data is better for us but I
completely agree with the Chancellor
that what really matters is that people
stay home protect lives and save the NHS
was it the other way around and you hope
does that answer your question I just
like to come back to the idea of where
there different parts of the country
could theoretically emerge at different
times from lock down whether that's
first of all politically possible and
secondly whether it's in any way
scientifically or medically desirable
I I think what I'd probably say before
handing over to tarantula on the medical
is just I think again I don't want to
start speculating about the future I
think that's not helpful at this
juncture I think the key thing now is
for people to focus unequivocally on the
advice when you're where we are where we
are in this process and the advice is
clear people should follow the advice
that's the best thing that everyone can
do wherever they live in this country at
the moment and I think Anjali probably
would echo that but I would echo that I
I don't want to get into hypotheticals
about what might be better one way or
another
I suspect that simple strategies might
well turn out to be the best to use but
we'll see and I'm gonna get it right
this time the advice is for Easter
weekend to stay home protect the NHS and
save lives so I will certainly be having
my Easter at home thank you Andy Gary
Gibbon from Channel four Thank You
Chancellor can I tell you we've had
unemployment figures from one European
country so far post Kovac crisis Norway
and unemployment well over ten percent
from the data you look at in the
Treasury have you hand on heart say
we're not gonna see something like that
here no Gary I I will be absolutely
honest this will have a significant
impact on our economy and not in an
abstract way it will have an impact on
people's jobs in their livelihoods and
that's why we've taken the actions that
we have in order to help mitigate some
of that I believe that for example the
jobs the retention scheme the furlough
scheme that we've put in place which
we've never had anything like in this
country as I said when I stood here to
announce it you know the government is
stepping in to help people to help pay
people's wages so that they're not laid
off so they don't end up being
unemployed that they remain attached to
their company you know with this a very
significant safety net behind them that
helps the company that helps the person
it helps their family finances I think
that and combined with all the other
measures we've taken will significantly
help mitigate some of the impact and I
think that's what other commentators
have said as well that if we weren't
doing all the things that we're doing if
we weren't put in place these
unprecedented measures it would
certainly be worse oh I
we're doing the right things I can't I
can't sign her and say that there isn't
going to be hardship ahead there is
which is why going through this together
as one society United understanding that
everyone's got a role to play whether
it's government business charities you
know your next-door neighbor I think
that's the best approach to this and I
but I'm confident we will get through it
some of that some of the data from
surveys already coming in outstripping
your expectations you mentioned the
further scheme some suggestion that
there could be people applying for that
businesses applying for that way in
excess maybe of Treasury expectations
did you ever think you could be forking
out say forty billion over three months
which could be the number doesn't it
well I think just to clarify on that we
have not put out a specific projection
or an estimate of the take-up of that
scheme and I think there was some
reporting that we might add and this
might be an excess of it so we haven't
actually done that for the simple reason
it you know this is an unprecedented
situation so of course we have a range
of scenarios that we that might become a
lot of way but there isn't a precise
central estimate of what the scheme
might do you know what I what I would
say is you're right there is other data
that we can look at and I think others
and myself have talked about universal
credit claims which have come down from
where they were you know ten days ago
which is comforting but they're still
very elevated relative to what normal
levels might be sometimes four or five
times higher you know that is obviously
you know that is obviously something we
look at and that's why we've not only
strengthened the safety net and put
extra money to the tune of seven billion
pounds plus into the welfare system for
those who accessing universal credit
we've also provided more funding to DWP
for example to help them you know
process those claims and make sure
people get the support as quickly as
they need but I said when it comes to
the job retention scheme you know people
who were put on that scheme at whatever
scale is to me that's the scheme working
the idea is that we did that so that
people were not laid off they were not
unemployed they had a good income to get
them through this and they remain
attached to their company in their
employer so you know if it ends up being
significantly used you know I will view
that as a success if it means that we
get through this and then can bounce
back quickly and provide security to
those people and their families
thank you it's um I think next Pipper
career at the Daily Mirror we all know
that the focus now focus now is
currently on following the advice
rightly but I've spoken to head teachers
and parents and MPs
who have a keen to reopen schools as
soon as the scientific advice suggests
as it's safe to do so so can I ask
professor McLean whether despite the
focus on the advice now whether she
could give us any indication of where
the schools might reopen before the
summer holidays which after all the
three months away and the Chancellor if
I can ask you how significant a factor
our schools in your discussions about
getting the economy back on its feet
once were through the other side of this
I'm happy to answer that by saying
there's very intensive work going on to
think about all sorts of different
things that we might do in the next
stage it would be completely premature
for me to give a yes or no answer to
that question because so much depends on
this question of how well have the
measures protein on March the 23rd
worked and we can't know that this week
and until we see a longer run of
infections that have happened since that
time but please be assured that people
are working incredibly hard to explore
those sorts of questions yeah and people
I probably can't add much to what Angela
said is that you know we are in all
these instances we are driven and basing
our decisions on the science and what is
best for controlling the spread of this
virus and getting that are not number
down that's been our approach to this
thing all along and that will continue
to be our approach and I you know pay
tribute to those who are helping keep
our schools open for the children of key
workers that is that is valuable and
their work that they're doing is you
know I believe well supported by the
Department of Education but it they also
are owed our thanks for doing that
because that is vital at this time I can
can I come back yeah of course yes I am
I can understand that you're obviously
the data and the science suggests that
it's too soon to say but mr. Pires was
talking just days ago about green shoots
and the beginnings of signs of the Qura
flattening was that premature I think
what I said last week was that the green
shoots were occurring in some of the
early things that we were seeing such as
the reduction in in transport the
reduction in footfall that we described
in these press conferences which
recognizes that the British public is
complying with instructions and as we've
said the messages we need to continue
complying with those instructions on
social distancing so those green shoots
over time translating to benefit in in a
reduction in the number of infections a
reduction in the number of
hospitalizations and then sadly finally
into a reduction in the number of deaths
and I think as you have heard from
Angela at the start of this press
conference we are starting to see a
plateauing the first signs of a plateau
a Gov of infections and hospitalizations
and and if we had not taken those
measures if people had not complied with
them we would not be seeing that we
would be seeing an exponential curve and
a set of graphs that were steeply rising
so it's it is we are beginning to see
the benefits I believe but the really
critical thing is that we have to
continue following instructions we have
to continue following social distancing
because if we don't the virus will start
to spread again and if it starts to
spread again then in a week or twos time
we will be seeing a set of figures which
are not going in the direction that we
want to see them we will see increased
pressure on the NHS we will see
increased numbers of deaths so this is
not the time to become complacent it's
not the time to think that the job has
been done this is the time to continue
everybody continuing whether whether
you're me whether you're remember the
public frankly whether you're a football
team to continue to keep with social
distancing and ensure that the hard work
and the the hardship that we've that we
are that everybody is no doubt
encountering leads to those benefits
that's a simple message today and you've
heard it time and time again and there
are no apologies for giving it green
Thank You Pippa could we go next - is it
Mesa Hall from the Express oh no yes
thank you chancellor just back to your
job retention scheme the head of Revenue
and Customs has today warned that the
scheme is open to fraud and abuse is it
have you had any evidence that that is
happening and would you urge employees
to blow the whistle on firms that may be
abusing this scheme yeah thanks I am
what I would say is we're obviously
designing schemes at Pace which haven't
been done before and part of the reason
that we've made some of the decisions
that we've made in the design whether
it's the job retention scheme or the
self-employed are deliberately to
counter fraud because obviously we want
to make them as simple as possible and
is accessible to as many people as
possible whilst protecting the taxpayer
because ultimately this is all of our
money it would need to be paid back at
some point so we want to make sure it's
targeted on people who really need it
and that has actually influenced some of
the design choices we've made that you
know that means some people might fall
between the cracks it means that there
are people who are saying well can you
not do it this way can you include us
and the reason you know we've not been
able to do that is to protect against
exactly that you know exactly the risk
of fraud or spurious claims that we
won't be able to verify or only verify
with a very cumbersome manual process
which would delay the schemes
implementation which i think is not the
right thing so you know I'm confident
that the decisions we've made will
minimize the risk of fraud obviously you
know the team are hard at work at the
moment getting these schemes up and
running and we will have as robust
verification and auditing processes as
possible to ensure that there isn't
fraud and that we can go and tackle it
but you know what that's why we've made
some of the choices we've made and
hopefully that you know what people will
understand that and they hopefully have
been reasonable about that when I've
explained well this is why you have to
be employed for example on this
particular day because if you weren't
then obviously there is the risk that
you could create a brand new employment
for someone who we've never heard of
before and suddenly start getting money
from the tax pay payer for not a genuine
case and so that's for example one of
the reasons we picked a cut-off date of
February 28th for their that particular
scheme a big part of that was preventing
fraud so and
hopefully that's clear and and German
HMRC and his team are doing a fantastic
job getting these things up and running
I think he talked a little bit about
timing and we're on track to deliver
against the timelines I outlined earlier
which is pleasing because this is a you
know this is a huge challenge for them
and they're doing a great job I hope
that does that answer what you wanted
thank you perfect thank you James tats
field may it male online
Thank You Chancellor and Churchill had a
personal doctor and president Trump has
a medical team but the Prime Minister
was lack with persistent symptoms are
over a week and was only admitted to
hospital after a video called with the
GP there doesn't seem to have been a
great deal of social distancing going on
in Downing Street haven't we failed to
protect our key decision-makers and what
needs to change for the future should be
more of a u.s. style system with more
protection well I think I'll defer to
Steve in a second but I would say that I
think the Prime Minister has received
excellent care and advice every step of
the process at the end of the day no
matter yeah we're all trying out to do
best that you know none of us are
superhuman and impervious to getting
sick during this process and that's what
makes this whole thing so awful for all
of us but you know as I've observed and
seen the advice the care has been
excellent not just beforehand but
especially now at San Thomas's I don't
know Steve is anything you want to add a
confident the Prime Minister has in his
receiving excellent medical care
I'm not his physician he will have been
advised by his own doctors but I do know
colleagues as in Thomas's hospital in
fact a couple of weeks ago I took the
opportunity to visit some Thomas's
hospital visit some of the critical care
consultants and I can't tell you how
impressed I was and this is going back a
few weeks at the preparations that they
were making the details that they were
thinking through in terms of how they
would deal with an increase in patients
with coronavirus they are amongst the
best critical care clinicians in the
world since Hamas's even when I was a
junior doctor many years ago was world
Rene
for its critical care capacity so I'm
absolutely confident absolutely
confident that my colleagues all the
clinical staff doctors nurses and
everybody else as in Thomas's is
providing exceptional world-class care
thank you see I just that answer your
question I was just going to say at the
point on the Downing Street social
distancing in hindsight do you think
that could be more rigorously observed
well I think look everyone is doing
their their best to follow the
guidelines I mean you know whether it's
you know cabinet we've conducted I think
for the first ever time meetings you
know via alternative means and people
are appropriately following all the
guidance you know that doesn't mean that
we can completely eliminate the spread
of infection in this process but I think
the good news is as I said there's
there's good update on the Prime
Minister's condition you know those that
have been away or many of them now
returning to work but I think whether
people are away or social distancing or
physically in the same place you know
the business of government you
throughout all of this has gone on and
it has gone on at Pace and the team
whether it's politicians cabinet
ministers or civil servants doctors and
medical advisers you know are working
night and day to make sure that we do
what we need to to get the country
through this and support the British
people at this time I can absolutely
give you that assurance thank you can we
do turn to Tim Ross from Bloomberg Tim
you there hello yes Chancellor you say
the Prime Minister is improving do you
expect to see him able to leave hospital
next week sometime what are your
expectations they're also on brexit
Chancellor you have said before that
you're very honest about the risks to
the economy and the fact there will be a
really significant impact potentially a
recession later this year do you really
think it's a good idea to leave the
European Union if the UK economy is in
or just coming out of a very deep
recession and then to your two
colleagues the decision on whether to
persist with the lockdown measures will
be taken we think you're saying next
week probably sometime what will the
full range of data that you're analyzing
be in order to take that decision
and are we at the beginning of the peak
now how far off is your best guess if I
could start I I think you know on you
you talked about you should we still
leave the European Union I think I mean
we we have left the European Union that
has happened what you know what we're
doing now is just negotiating the final
terms of our trading arrangements that
work is carrying on and David Frost our
the Prime Minister's chief Sherpa in
this regard held talks earlier this week
with the deputy counterpart over at the
EU they've exchanged legal texts they've
set out some clarifications that they
both wanted from each other and indeed I
think David is talking to his direct
counterpart are the later this week or
next week to plan the next steps for the
meetings and continue negotiations over
April and May so I think we remain
committed to the timeline of concluding
those talks and negotiations that work
is happening you know albeit over
videoconference rather than in person so
you know I think I think that's pretty
clear statement of where we are on that
and then on the side you want to take a
question yes very happy to take that
question so one of the great strengths
of the kinds of mathematical modeling
that sage is drawing on in order to give
its advice is that it lets you pull
together information from all sorts of
different data streams so my colleagues
who are generating that advice will be
using hard data on things like numbers
of people arriving at hospital numbers
of people having to be admitted to
critical care in hospital but also
things like that data on how many people
are there in stations survey data
they're asking people what behaviors
precisely what behaviors have you toned
down in the last few weeks so I could
actually bore you by telling you how
many different Street data streams are
under consideration but that is the
strength of that approach is it lets you
take a lot of different kinds of
information and do the best job you can
of synthesizing them together in order
to understand the situation we have been
in in the past that has brought us to
where we are now and then do what you
can to project into the future what's
going to happen next but I'm not going
to do that right now
because that's something that we do in a
rather forum
process the model has come to sage and
then sage puts that together and we send
it over to to our politicians in order
to make decisions Steve anything you
wanted to add you know sage has been
publishing its material so that is
available and I think also to add that
many of the academic groups that
contribute to sage public publish their
own research and modeling independently
and so that is there for all to see in
terms of those key academic groups thank
you well if I could possibly wrap up
thank you Tim for that and just say
thank you to Angela thank you to Steve
for answering all the questions you know
our announcement today was about
supporting charities who are a critical
part of the social fabric of this
country it builds on the economic plan
that we've already announced to protect
people's health and Economic Security by
supporting public services like our NHS
backing business and protecting people's
jobs and incomes and if I could conclude
by saying this our economic plan and the
plan for charities that we announced
today are built on one simple idea that
we depend on each other thank you the
Chancellor issues you know ending
today's press conference
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News